# Asus E200HA: Linux distro installation and optimization guidelines

This little manual aims at providing some guidelines for the installation on Linux distros on 
Asus E200HA. This little and cheap netbook is not able to have decent performance with Windows 
and its ridiculous memory (32GB!!!) can't be enough for the heavy proprietary OS. Unfortunately, 
the hardware (Intel Cherrytrail... looking at you!) is not as linux-friendly as it should be, 
yet some good improvements can be made. In particular, I will suggest you some tips to optimize 
performance and especially battery life, as well as general adivices for the choice of a good 
distro for this netbook. Finally, I will try to deal with the unrecognized audio device, which 
is far way the most relevant issue with this machine. 

## Getting Started

At the time of writing, I am mostly working on providing a good document, written in LaTex, so 
that everyone can read it and share it. The code for modify or fork it is of course available in 
the repo as well. Just download the AsusE200HA_Linux_Guidelines.pdf and have fun!

In a near future, I will try to collect every step of the guide inside a bash script. For the 
moment, just read thhe guide... better to learn a little bit than just copy/paste in the 
terminal, isn't it?

### Prerequisites

Of course you need to have a AsusE200HA netbook with you! You don't necessarily need to have a 
distro already installed on it. In fact, the first part of the guide willl suggest some distros, 
like Ubuntu 18.04 derivatives or Manjaro Linux 17.x and above.

I can ensure you that all the guidelines I mention are perfectly valid for any Debian-based, 
Ubuntu-based or Arch-based distro. Just pay attention to the suggested versions since up to date 
software is required for this little netbook! 

### Installing

I won't cover the Linux installation part. You can find a huge amount of guide about Ubuntu 
Linux installation, Debian Installation and so on on Google. I will attach some recommended 
official documentation in case you are a totally new Linux user. This repo is not about 
installing Linux, it's about how to optimize it for our specific hardware.

Until I will develop (or someone else contributing at the repo will do) a proprer bash script, 
the 
right way to do things is reading carefully the PDF manual AsusE200HA_Linux_Guidelines.pdf and 
apply every tip step by step, trying to understand what we are doing and especially WHY we are 
doing so. Learning is better than copying!

## Built With

* [TexLive](https://tug.org/texlive/) - LaTex distribution
* [Gummi](https://github.com/alexandervdm/gummi) - A fast and lightweight LaTex editor

## Contributing

I honestly admit this is one of my first repos on git-based platforms and I doon't expect 
so much community stuff behind this simple guides. Nevertheless, feel free to contact me in case 
something is not clear or something else can be added to complete the manual.

## Versioning

I use [Git](https://git-scm.com/) for versioning. 

## Authors

* **Matteo Bonanomi**

New *contributors* are always welcome!


